

                                WARRIORS
                                --------
                                

Skyrim is a fine game, definitely. But it has certain flawnesses:

1) No end game. Once you finally have made your character what it is, there
   is no more content to run with that. The most fascinating part of the
   game is middle game, where you run dungeons to improve certain aspects
   in your character.
   
2) Just little tactics in fights. There are fine aspects in NPC AI, but in
   general, the only tactics in the fights is smash buttons (and to prepare
   your character).

"Warriors" game project tries to answer to these problems, with following
princpiles:

1) It is only endgame content. You get all the even remotely possible skills,
   traits, perks, anything, straight from the beginning. What you do is to
   run dungeons, with chosen difficulty. What you get is 'cosmetics' and
   'unlocks' (further dungeons and additional classes) - not new skills, no
   new traits, no new perks (except that beginner level dungeons might have
   this sort of 'tutorial' function).
   
2) Make fighting more complex by introducing different skills with different
   effects and availability.
   
- - -

DUNGEONS: The sole idea is to create dungeons to fight. For a fight, you
choose a dungeon and the difficulty. The difficulty level is something like:

    Tier 1: "Too young to die!": Very easy, meant for players just starting to
            play.
            
    Tier 2: "Not too rough!": Somewhere at middle, a step forward after Tier 1
            towards nominal level Tier 3.
    
    Tier 3: "Hurt me plenty!": Normal difficulty is sort of nominal level of
            playing. The actual difficulty can depend on your class choices,
            and how well you can adapt your class to the dungeon.
            
    Tier 4: "Ultra-Violence": The idea here is to raise up the difficulty so
            that it starts to be difficult even for classes/builds suitable for
            the instance. For non-suitable classes, these can be just a
            nightmare!
            
    Tier 5: "Nightmare!": Nightmare difficulty is aimed to give ultimate
            challenges for experienced players, playing most suitable class for
            the instance. These difficulty levels are not necessarily
            completeable except for just certain character setup in the hands
            of experienced player - and even then, it may require some luck.

In addition to this, dungeons are classified based on their "availability".
Dungeons that are aimed to be runned at the beginning of the game, have
all difficulty tiers available. Dungeons which you unlock after lots of
playing, might have only highest difficulty tier available. But still, even
beginner dungeons have their "Nightmare!" difficulty tier, to make them
replayable even with very skilled players:

                            Chosable difficulty
                            
                            Tier    1   2   3   4   5

    Training courses                x   x   x   x   x

    Beginner dungeon                -   x   x   x   x

    Intermediate dungeon            -   -   x   x   x

    Expert dungeon                  -   -   -   x   x

    Master dungeon                  -   -   -   -   x


So: (1) High level dungeons do not have easy difficulty levels, and
(2) all dungeons have high difficulty levels.


This way:

    (1) You (hopefully) will find challenges even from beginner dungeons,
        choosing "Nightmare!" tier, as experienced player.
    
    (2) Completing an "Master" level dungeons (having only Tier 5 difficulty)
        is an achievement as its own, because it has no handicapped tiers
        (Master dungeons have only highest tier difficulty available). It is
        possible, that it is possible to choose a dungeon with -1 Tier just for
        practising: that is, it might be possible to practise Master (Tier 5)
        dungeons with Tier 4 difficulty, but you cant get anything out of that.
    
    (3) As a single player game, you will find challenges in even intermediate
        dungeons with different (not that suitable) classes. Completing a
        Master difficulty dungeon with a class thought not suited for the
        dungeon is something - amazing! But most possibly impossible.

    (4) As a single player game, the whole purpose of the game is to give
        you: (1) "casual" playability, you choose to try to run some dungeon
        when having 15 min time, (2) content that you can't finish quickly:
        even content that is so hard that not many people believe you have
        made it, once you have completed it - maybe there is a need for
        screenshots...

- - -

CLASSES: I have talked about classes. Why I think there is such?

When playing your character, you have three levels of tweaking:

    (1) off-dungeon: When out of dungeon, you can pretty freely tweak your
        character in different means, to prepare it for next dungeon.
        
    (2) in-dungeon, off-combat: When running dungeons, your possibilities
        to tweak your character are solely based on the choices you made
        in the first phase.

    (3) in-dungeon, in-combat: During fights, you have still certain
        options available to adapt to situations. The options you have
        are dependent on the choices you have made: how much you have
        favored flexibility over plain raw performance.

What classes are for, are to *FORCE* you for certain play style and adapt for
that. Most probably, there is a sort of generic "Warrior" type class. Most
probably, many of the other classes are unlocked by playing. Most probably,
other than generic warrior class, other classes make some things easier and
some things harder.

You choose a class, and you accept that it has its limitations. You can tweak
your character only to certain limits, you can not make it to an another class.

