

                            SIMULATED WORLD
                            ---------------
                            
Warriors is a fighting game. But what do you do if you just one to chill
around? My plan is that then you can take part to a simulated world in
a sandbox style subgame. You have created your character to fight in
dungeons, use the same one to live in a virtual pseudo-medieval world.


                                * * *

I want the simulation to be solid and stable. It will always lead to
pseudo-medieval society, no matter how much it is stirred and shaken. Its main
purpose is to create playground for player to *play a role* in a virtual world,
it is not for simulating real world phenomenons.

Some initial thoughts:

1) NPCs dont die, at least quickly: first reason is that as PC is just another
NPC, it would mean that PC can die, too. Second reason is that dying would
need simulation of birth and growth, and the time span could extend far too
long. Or, maybe they do: for each death, one of the childs is transformed to
an adult, and one new child is added to world.

2) The world does not "advance". They are at their own "technological
singularity" already, they can't invent any new technological advances. Some
technologies can be forgotten, thought, and need research to rediscover.

Simulation has attraction point ("perfect balance"). If the world is shaken,
it tries to come back to "sweet area". But on the other hand, I try to design
the simulation so that stable point is unreachable, so that the
simulation keeps evolving all the time without becoming static.


                                * * *

Simulation is bounded by:

- Fixed number of resource fields: with fixed maximum "boosters", this
  makes the world resource bounded.
  
- Fixed number of NPCs: NPCs are "time/work" resources, so world is bounded
  by this coefficient, too.


                                * * *

FACILITY: To covert items to other types, NPCs need facilities like Farmland,
Smelter, Smithy and so on. In addition to these, NPCs need to put time and
needed reagents.

As I would like NPCs to hire other NPCs to work on their facilities, there is
a need for some sort of "facility slot tokens" - otherwise, one single smithy
could serve all. So:

    Facility => (Facility - 1) + N * Token

    (Token + Time) + Reactants = Products

Facility owner can give tokens to someone else to use the facility. Facilities
need frequent renewal (maintenance), or they will wear out.

Higher level facilities could give more tokens per day than single NPC can
use, so it would be beneficial to hire someone to use the extra tokens.

Owning facilities is limited. I don't want everything to be owned by one
NPC.


                                * * *

EXPERTISE: It is planned that NPCs will steadly specialize themselves to certain
tasks. We could start with five step expertise meter:

    Novice  Apprentice  Adept   Expert  Master

NPC must hold the previous levels in her/his expertise bag to maintain the
level - that is, Adept level needs Apprentice and Novice levels at the same
profession. So, NPC can be:

    - Novice at five different professions
    - Adept in one profession, and Apprentice on another
    - Adept in one, and Novice in two
    - Expert in one, and Novice in another

To be a master in one profession, NPC can't hold expertise on another - but
s/he can sacrifice this level to gain Novice level on another profession.

Expertise in one profession grants expertise tokens. These can be used (1)
to produce more low level items, or (2) to produce higher level items.

